# SMT-LIB Benchmark Submission

This repository serves as a staging repository for benchmarks submitted
for inclusion in the SMT-LIB library.  To submit new benchmarks fork this
repository, add the benchmarks, and create a pull request.  The added
files must be valid SMT-LIB files and contain a few additional headers.
The folder structure must also be appropriate.  The pull request is
automatically checked by Github and manually by us.

A benchmark is an *incremental* benchmark if it contains more than one
`check-sat` command.

To check that the benchmarks fulfill the requirements
upfront the `quick-check.sh` script and the tool
[dolmen](https://github.com/Gbury/dolmen/) can be used.  For example, with
a file `non-incremental/UF/20211018-Test/test.smt2` the two options are:

```bash
$ ./quick-check.sh non-incremental/UF/20211018-Test/test.smt2
$ dolmen -i smt2 --check-headers=true --header-lang-version=2.6 non-incremental/UF/20211018-Test/test.smt2
```

The `quick-check.sh` script is fast, but not perfectly accurate.
Dolmen, on the other hand, aims at supporting the SMT-LIB standard
precisely.

## Benchmark Requirements

Benchmarks must be valid SMT-LIB2 files.  They must contain at least
one `check-sat` command and end with an `exit` command.  Furthermore,
they must start with the following header:

```
(set-info :smt-lib-version <version>)
(set-logic <logic>)
(set-info :source |<description>|)
(set-info :license "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/")
(set-info :category <category>)
(set-info :status <status>)
```
where:
- ```<version>``` is the SMT-LIB version number, usually 2.6.
- ```<logic>``` is one of the accepted SMT-LIB logics.
- ```<description>``` is a textual description containing:
  * Generated by: the name(s) of those who generated the benchmark;
  * Generated on: generation date with format YYYY-MM-DD;
  * Generator: tool which generated the benchmark (if any);
  * Application: the general goal;
  * Target solver: the solvers that were initially used to check the benchmarks;
  * Publications: references to related publications.
This can be followed by any other useful information in free text. 
- ```<category>``` is either "crafted", indicating that it was hand-made,
"random", indicating that it was generated randomly, or "industrial"
(everything else).  Note that the category should be in quotes.
- ```<status>``` is either sat or unsat according to the status of the benchmark,
  or unknown if not known.

We encourage to distribute benchmarks under
the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), but submitters can
specify their own licence in the benchmark itself using the ```(set-info
:license "licence string")``` command.

Below is an example:

```
(set-info :smt-lib-version 2.6)
(set-logic QF_UFLIA)
(set-info :source |
Generated by: Clark Barrett, Pascal Fontaine, Cesare Tinelli
Generated on: 2016-12-31
Generator: Sledgehammer
Application: Isabelle proof of Gödel theorem
Target solver: CVC4
|)
(set-info :license "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/")
(set-info :category "industrial")
(set-info :status unsat)
```

In the case of incremental benchmarks one `set-info :status` command
must be issued for each `check-sat` command.  In this case the
`set-info :status` commands should be placed in the line just before
the corresponding `check-sat` command.

## Folder Structure and LFS

The basic structure of the folders is:

```
[non-]incremental/<logic>/<set-name>/.../<name>.smt2
```

Incremental benchmarks are stored in the folder `incremental`.  All other
benchmarks are stored in `non-incremental`.  Non-incremental benchmarks
should always be separated from the incremental benchmarks, even if a
set of benchmarks mostly consists of incremental benchmarks.

The benchmarks are then separated according to their logic.

The `<set-name>` is either `<date>-<application>-<submitter>`,
`<date>-<application>`, or `<date>-<submitter>`.  The `<data>`
is written as `YYYYMMDD`. 

Benchmarks can be nested within a deeper directory structure below the
set directory.  The nesting should be sensible.

Benchmarks larger than 10MB should be stored in
[Git LFS](https://git-lfs.github.com/).  Use `git lfs track <file>` to
add a file to LFS.  This adds `<file>` to the `.gitattributes` file
in the current working directory.  To avoid the creation of additional
`.gitattributes` files the `track` command should only be used from the
root of the repository.
To find all benchmarks that exceed this limit, one can use
```
find . -type f -size +10M -not -path '*/\.*'
```

